Hi there,
and welcome to this module in our Pluralsight course Monitoring
and Event Response on AWS for DevOps Engineers.
My name's Mike Brown,
and in this module we're going to be working with CloudWatch logs,
alarms, and metrics.
In this module we're going to start off by taking a close look at CloudWatch
metrics and alarms before discussing how we can gather custom log
information and system metrics from our EC2 instances.
We're going to discuss CloudTrail events,
building upon what we discussed about CloudTrail in a previous module.
And we'll finish off this module by discussing ways that we
can query log data inside CloudWatch.
Let's begin then by taking a close look at CloudWatch metrics and alarms.
So fundamentally metrics are data,
data about the performance of our systems that are
either run in AWS or on‑premise.
Most AWS services provide metric information into CloudWatch and most
services that do offer a free tier that monitors basic information while
other services offer a free tier and detailed monitoring.
An example of this is EC2 where you can enable detailed
monitoring for each of your EC2 instances,
the caution here being that detailed monitoring
will always cost you extra money.
Once we have metric information inside CloudWatch we can
search through that metric information, build graphs from our search results,
and generate alarms based on metrics that can inform us when a particular
event occurs or start off a whole series of automation events.
Metric data in CloudWatch is kept for 15 months.
This allows us to keep going back to our metric data and
working with it in different ways.
When viewing metric information inside CloudWatch we should
be aware that metrics are grouped first by a namespace and
then by dimension combinations.
So for example,
if you've deployed EC2 instances the metrics of those EC2
instances will be grouped under the EC2 namespace,
but then beneath that EC2 namespace we can view metrics for individual EC2
instances or metrics for an entire auto scale group.
In this case, the entire auto scale group or individual EC2 instances,
they're your dimensions.
Now AWS offers lots and lots of services,
most of which you're probably not even using.
So be aware that when working with CloudWatch only AWS services that
you're using actually send metrics to CloudWatch.
So if you haven't deployed the elastic load balancer service
you will not see metrics for that service.
When working with CloudWatch you can view metrics and the metric
details through the AWS console or through the AWS CLI.
It's also possible to access the CloudWatch metrics
programmatically using the CloudWatch APIs,
as well as metrics published by the AWS services that you've deployed.
We can also publish custom metrics to CloudWatch.
We can use either the AWS CLI or the CloudWatch APIs to publish custom metrics.
When we do publish our custom metrics we get to choose a resolution,
either standard that can publish metrics at one‑minute intervals or
high resolution that can publish metrics every second.
To add custom metrics from the AWS CLI use cloudwatch
put‑metric‑data to place a custom metric into CloudWatch.
When you publish custom metrics in CloudWatch it's
recommended that you set dimensions.
Dimensions give us more insight into the metrics,
what the metrics contain and how the metrics can be used.
To view your custom metrics on the CLI use cloudwatch get‑metric‑statistics.
Now you'll be able to see your custom metrics and how they're configured.
We'll take a look at different types of metrics during our demonstration.
Another really powerful component of CloudWatch is CloudWatch alarms.
Unlike metrics that are enabled by default in AWS,
there are no default CloudWatch alarms.
But we can create CloudWatch alarms to monitor for changes in
any of the metrics registered with CloudWatch.
When we create an alarm we can integrate that alarm
with the Simple Notification Service, SNS,
we can integrate that alarm with auto scale,
or, depending on the metric, we can also integrate with EC2 actions.
So if we create an alarm that's monitored in an EC2 metric and the alarm goes
into the alarm state we can have an action that shuts down,
reboots, or terminates an EC2 instance.
The integrate with auto scale means that based on a
metric we can trigger an auto scale event,
so you either scale out or scale in.
And by integrating with the Simple Notification Service,
which is our published subscriber service in AWS,
an alarm can send a message to an SNS topic which in
turn can integrate with email, lambda functions,
and a whole heap of other AWS and non‑AWS services.
So an alarm can be one of the starting off points for automation inside AWS.
When working with alarms we can configure metric alarms or composite alarms.
Metric alarms work with a single metric.
So let's say CPU utilization.
If CPU goes up, generate an alarm.
Composite metrics work with several metric alarms.
So let's say you've got metric alarms alerting you to issues
with different parts of your application,
maybe metric arms that are monitoring your web tier,
your application tier, your database tier.
We can then create a composite alarm that only kicks in if
several other alarms are breached first.
This way different teams and events can be notified
when specific alarms are triggered.
But if multiple alarms are triggered that can trigger a
composite alarm that escalates the problem to a different team
or instigates different work flows.
Now,
when we configure an alarm and it goes into alarm
state it triggers its actions once.
The exception is auto scale.
When we configure an alarm that triggers an auto scale event
that can keep triggering the auto scale until the maximum size
of our auto scale group is reached or, since the metric's changed,
until the alarm is no longer in the alarm state.
When working with alarms you'll find that alarms have one of three states,
either OK,
this means the metric you are monitoring is below the
threshold you've set to monitor, ALARM,
that means the metric you are monitoring is above the threshold
that you configured and action should be taken,
or INSUFFICIENT_DATA.
So if the alarm was just started, the metric's no longer available,
or if it's been running but it hasn't gathered enough information yet to make
a decision then the alarm will show us INSUFFICIENT_DATA.
This is Globomantics' application.
This application consists of three tiers,
a web tier, application, and database tier.
So the database tier is running MySQL and using Multi‑AZ replication.
The web tier and application tier machines are split
across multiple availability zones.
Now you can see they're both part of auto scale groups.
Then we have a public‑facing load balancer.
The load balancer requests the web tier,
and the web tier and application tier communicate with each
other with the use of standard SQS queues.
Given this application,
what would you suggest Globomantics monitor so the application can respond
to changes in demand and react to availability issues?
Take a minute, have a think, pause the video if you need,
and see if you can come up with some ideas.
So, one set of possible monitoring options,
for the EC2 instances we could monitor things like CPU,
disk metrics, SQS queue length.
All of these can be used as part of alarms to monitor for when our
web tier and application tier is under strain.
Our alarms will then be integrated with auto scale,
triggering scale‑out and scale‑in events.
We might also want to monitor AWS health events.
So individual services like the load balancer service in SQS
generate events that we can monitor for in CloudWatch.
Using CloudWatch Events or Amazon EventBridge we can be notified when
there's performance issues with the ELB service or SQS service or
indeed if the entire region's having issues.
We can then use the information to automate responses.
So for example,
if the load balancer service and SQS service are having issues
in our region we might decide to integrate with lambda that in
turn can integrate with CloudFormation to launch our application
in a different region,
giving us another environment that we can fail over
to if problems get more severe.
We'll also want to monitor for RDS metrics and database events,
building alarms that can indicate to us when our database is under strain
or watching for key events from RDS which can give us information about
service status that we can use to scale our service or again migrate our
service to a different region.
There's lots of information that we can monitor in CloudWatch
for our deployed applications and services,
but the key to success is automation,
choosing the appropriate metrics to monitor,
the right alarms to configure, the right events to watch for, and using those results to trigger remediation action.